TPI tutorial 2: with Docker (#3246)
iterative/dvc.org: content/blog/2022-02-28-using-iterative-terraform-provider-with-docker.md

---
title: Using Iterative Terraform Provider with Docker
date: 2022-02-28
description: >
  In this tutorial you'll learn how you can move use an existing Docker image with 
  Iterative Terraform Provider, as well as build your own Docker image.
descriptionLong: >
  In this tutorial you'll learn how you can move use an existing Docker image with 

>   Iterative Terraform Provider, as well as build your own Docker image.

Reviewer: Should the short desc be shorter or the long one longer? Or both

Reviewer 2: done

picture: 2022-02-28/unsplash-containers.jpg

> author: maria_khalusova

Reviewer 3: The branch can be deployed successfully once we [add a author to `content/authors`](https://dvc.org/doc/user-guide/contributing/blog#adding-authors).

Author: Right, the author is added in a different PR which will be published before this one, so I'm not even sure if it makes sense to add here as well :D

Reviewer: It makes some sense, so we can see the review app.

What's the other PR? Maybe that one is ready to merge

Author: Nope, it's not. It's the other tutorial that will be published after the release of TPI.
So here's the sequence. First, there will be a release blog post (currently in google docs), then the blog post with the tutorial #1, then this one. I'm building up a backlog of posts.

Author: Not sure why github decided to make that a link to an issue, please ignore that link.

Reviewer: OK np. Please request my review here once https://github.com/iterative/dvc.org/pull/3087 is merged (and `master` merged back into this PR's branch 🙂). Thanks

#  todo: commentsUrl:
tags:
  - MLOps
  - Iterative Terraform Provider
  - AWS
  - Docker
---

> Recently we have [published a tutorial](2022-01-15-moving-local-experiments-to-the-cloud-with-iterative-terraform-provider.md) 

Reviewer: Looks like a bad link probably?

Reviewer: p.s. another good reason to have a deployed review app, so the automated link checks can run

Author: This is a link to the first tutorial that hasn't been published yet.

talked about [Terraform](https://www.terraform.io), Iterative Terraform Provider and how you can configure the `iterative_task` 
resource to provision infrastructure, sync data and run your training script. 

To make it easy to get started, we used a pre-configured [Deep Learning AMI from AWS](https://aws.amazon.com/machine-learning/amis/) 
to simplify the environment setup. In most cases, however, instead of using a pre-configured Deep Learning AMI, you will 
ship your environment to a remote machine using [Docker](https://www.docker.com) which has become an essential tool not only 
in traditional software development, but also in machine learning. If you're not sure why it would be a good idea to use 
Docker for machine learning development, check out 
[this article from AWS](https://aws.amazon.com/blogs/opensource/why-use-docker-containers-for-machine-learning-development/) 
that should answer this question for you. As a side note, using Docker to encapsulate your environment doesn't mean you won't
 be using AMIs at all. In fact, AMI (Amazon Machine Image) is actually a required component of setting up an EC2, and at the 

>  minimum you will need an Ubuntu distribution AMI (which is a configurable default for the `iterative_task`). However, we will 

Reviewer 2: completely removed & rewritten

 use Docker for the machine learning specific setup: drivers, GPU-specific libraries for accelerated math, and Python libraries. 
 This separation will not only give you more control over the versions of the frameworks that you choose to use (or not use), 

>  but also over the cloud provider you provision the resources with. Your Docker image is not cloud provider specific while a 
>  Deep Learning AMI is a part of the AWS ecosystem.  

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 but also over the cloud provider you provision the resources with. Your Docker image is cloud provider agnostic.
```

If you have a DevOps team, they can build a Docker image suited for your needs, so you'll only need to use it in your 
`iterative_task` script. We'll show you how to do this in the first part of this tutorial.  But if you need (or want) to build 
your own Docker image, we've got you too! The second part of this tutorial will illustrate some basics required for building 
and using your own Docker image. Without further ado, let's get into it! 

## Setting up environment for utilizing GPUs with Docker

> If you haven't read the [previous tutorial](2022-01-15-moving-local-experiments-to-the-cloud-with-iterative-terraform-provider.md)

Reviewer 2: todo: update link

yet and are not familiar with Terraform, I would encourage you to check it out and learn some basics, i.e. how to let Terraform 
know that you'll be using the Iterative Provider, how to initialize the working directory with `terraform init`, how to use 

> other essential Terraform commands (`plan`, `apply`, `refresh`, `show`, `destroy`). All these will apply here, we'll only modify 

Reviewer 2: did we mention `plan`?

Author: Yes, I did mention `plan` in the first tutorial.

the script part of the `main.tf`.

Let's say we have a DevOps team that has carefully prepared a Docker image suitable for data science and machine learning. To 
illustrate this, we can use a publicly available CML Docker image (`docker://iterativeai/cml`) provided by Iterative. This image 

> comes loaded with Python, CUDA, git, node and other essentials for full-stack data science. There are several versions of this 
> image, but for this example we'll take `docker://iterativeai/cml:0-dvc2-base1-gpu`, which includes Ubuntu 20.04, Python 3.8 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
comes loaded with Python, CUDA, git, node and other essentials for full-stack data science. There are
[several versions of this image](https://cml.dev/doc/self-hosted-runners#docker-images),
but for this example we'll take `docker://iterativeai/cml:0-dvc2-base1-gpu`, which includes Ubuntu 20.04, Python 3.8 
```

(CUDA 11.0.3, CuDNN 8).

Here's what the script is going to look like: 

```hcl
   script = <<-END
   #!/bin/bash

>    sudo apt-get update
>    sudo apt-get install -y software-properties-common build-essential ubuntu-drivers-common

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   sudo apt update -qq && sudo apt install -yqq software-properties-common build-essential ubuntu-drivers-common
```

   sudo ubuntu-drivers autoinstall

>    sudo curl -fsSL https://get.docker.com -o get-docker.sh && sudo sh get-docker.sh &&

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   sudo curl -fsSL https://get.docker.com | sudo sh -
```

Reviewer 4: @casperdcl is this suggestion complete?

   sudo usermod -aG docker ubuntu
   sudo setfacl --modify user:ubuntu:rw /var/run/docker.sock
   curl -s -L https://nvidia.github.io/nvidia-docker/gpgkey | sudo apt-key add -
   curl -s -L https://nvidia.github.io/nvidia-docker/ubuntu20.04/nvidia-docker.list | sudo tee /etc/apt/sources.list.d/nvidia-docker.list

>    sudo apt update && sudo apt install -y nvidia-docker2

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   sudo apt update -qq && sudo apt install -yqq nvidia-docker2
```

   sudo systemctl restart docker

>    rm get-docker.sh

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

  
   nvidia-smi

>    docker run --rm --gpus all -v "$PWD:/tpi" iterativeai/cml:0-dvc2-base1-gpu \
>        /bin/bash -c "cd /tpi; pip install -r requirements.txt; python src/train.py"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   docker run --rm --gpus all -v "$PWD:/tpi" -w /tpi iterativeai/cml:0-dvc2-base1-gpu \
       /bin/bash -c "pip install -r requirements.txt; python src/train.py"
```

   END
```

As you can see, we still need to make sure to install the required drivers first. Then in order to use a Docker image, we'll need 
to install Docker itself, and sort out users, groups and permissions. Next, we'll install the `nvidia-docker` that will enable us 
to run GPU-accelerated Docker containers. Yes, GPUs will make you work for them before you can enjoy the accelerated training!

Finally, we can use Iterative's image to run our own container with this line: 

> ```   docker run --rm --gpus all -v "$PWD:/tpi" iterativeai/cml:0-dvc2-base1-gpu \

Reviewer 2: formatting issue?

       /bin/bash -c "cd /tpi; pip install -r requirements.txt; python src/train.py"
```
Let's unpack this line. 
* `docker run`: this command will essentially create a container from the specified image, and then let us use it. 

> * `–rm flag` will make Docker automatically clean up the container and remove the file system when the container exits, 
> * `–gpus all` will allow us to use GPUs of the host machine from the container

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* `--rm` flag will make Docker automatically clean up the container and remove the file system when the container exits, 
* `--gpus all` will allow us to use GPUs of the host machine from the container
```

be quite specific to our project, so we'd have to build our own Docker image. Luckily we don't have to build one completely from 
scratch, instead we can use one of the existing publicly available images as a base to build on top of.

For this example, let's use `nvidia/cuda:11.3.0-cudnn8-runtime-ubuntu20.04` from NVIDIA. Earlier, we didn't need to install Docker 
on the local machine because it was only used on the cloud machine, but if you're going to build your own image, you'll need to start by
[installing Docker locally](https://docs.docker.com/get-docker/). 

To build an image, create a file called `Dockerfile` in your project's root directory. This is a text-based script of instructions 
that will be used to create a container image. In our case it'll be quite simple as most of the complex setup is taken care of
by NVIDIA's image we're using as a base:

```
FROM --platform=linux/amd64 nvidia/cuda:11.3.0-cudnn8-runtime-ubuntu20.04
 
# Install wget and python
RUN apt-get update && apt-get install -y wget python3-pip
 
# Add the required packages to the environment

> COPY ./requirements.txt /tmp/requirements.txt
> RUN pip3 install -r /tmp/requirements.txt
>  

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
COPY requirements.txt .
RUN pip3 install -r requirements.txt && rm requirements.txt

```

> WORKDIR /app

Reviewer 2: for consistency?

```suggestion
WORKDIR /tpi
```
